# Aditya Vedanthu

## **About me**
I contribute to design, simulation, and testing projects at AMRC, applying CAD/CAM, virtual machining, residual stress analysis, machining distortion prediction and control, 3D scanning, and experimental data collection to develop advanced manufacturing solutions. With a proactive and results-driven mindset, I’m always seeking opportunities to grow, learn, and tackle new challenges. I’m excited about contributing to cutting-edge projects that redefine what’s possible in engineering and shape the future of the industry.

- Linkedin: http://www.linkedin.com/in/adityavedanth
- email: adityavedanth@gmail.com

## **Experience** 
1. Project Engineer - Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC) - June 2023 - Present - Sheffield, UK
I work at the intersection of design, simulation, and testing at the AMRC, where I help develop innovative solutions for manufacturing challenges. My experience spans CAD, CAM, virtual machining, residual stress analysis, machining distortion predictions and control, 3D scanning, and experimental data collection

2. Research Assistant - University of Glasgow - Jan 2022 - March 2022 - Glasgow, UK
I work at the intersection of design, simulation, and testing at the AMRC, where I help develop innovative solutions for manufacturing challenges. My experience spans CAD, CAM, virtual machining, residual stress analysis, machining distortion predictions and control, 3D scanning, and experimental data collection

## **Skill Set** 
| **CAD/CAM/FEA**   | **Programming** |
|-------------------|-----------------|
| Siemens NX        | MATLAB          |
| Solidworks        | Simulink        |
| Fusion 360        | Python          |
| Abaqus CAE        | NI LabVIEW      |
| CG Tech Vericut   |                 |

## **Publications** 
1. The pulse-elevator: A pump for granular materials -  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actaastro.2022.07.052
- Granular materials include fuels, foods, feedstocks, and raw materials, and they are frequently created in drilling, exploration, and comminution. However, despite this ubiquity, they can be much more difficult to transport than other materials. Screw conveyors can be used, as can bailing, gas-blowing, and vibro-conveyors, but all have issues related to some combination of complexity, inclination, differential friction, and torque reaction. We propose an entirely new concept: a combination of the vibro-conveyor and the Tesla valve. This ‘pulse-elevator’ is a single piece of inert material, it can operate vertically, it does not depend upon frictional interactions, and it is effectively torqueless. This paper describes the mechanism in analytical, numerical, and experimental terms, and then illustrates two successful experimental use cases: powder uplift from a hopper, and the replacement of augering in a rock-drilling application. These cases are particularly relevant for the facilitation of ISRU and subsurface exploration in space

2. Replacement of aircraft's oleo pneumatic hydraulic shock-absorbing system with an electromagnetic shock-absorbing system, an alternate solution - https://dl.iafastro.directory/event/IAC-2019/paper/51055/
- Mankind will soon become a space faring race with frequent travels from Earth to other planetary systems and back. An alternate landing and impact dynamics solution will be necessary to withstand different planetary environmental systems. Current landing and impact dynamics of aircraft oleo strut shock absorber systems have not undergone a major change for a decade or so. This abstract proposes to use Electro Magnets as a replacement of the landing gear’s current oleo-pneumatic system, that can be used with landing systems in earth based or extraterrestrial locations. The proposal will be modeled through simulation and data-sets from available, measurable and estimated data. It will overcome disadvantages of hydraulic fluids, such as, hydraulic leakages, fluid replacement and reduction or possible elimination of fatigue due to repetitive hoop stress. The scope of the study is limited to the use of electromagnets in the oleo-strut shock absorber. Associated systems such as power generation, sensor/sensory inputs, such as data ranges related to load, weight, magnetic and acting forces will be part of the study. The basic principle relies on the use of ‘Electromagnetic Halbach’ system to act as a shock absorbing mechanism. Oleo struts will be modified to accommodate the magnetic system. ‘Controlled’ repulsion force between the electromagnets will be used to act as a shock absorbing mechanism during landing, taxiing and take-off. The strength of the repulsion force between the electromagnets will be controlled based on real-time feedback from various sensors. This design, like existing and previous systems cushions the impacts and damps out vertical oscillations. Similar technology exists in Maglev trains where electromagnetic forces are used to levitate a maglev train. Unlike the maglev system, this proposal focuses on the landing force impact control, dissipation, and management with the use of electromagnets. Various technologies such as Electromagnetic suspension (EMS), Electrodynamic suspension (EDS) and Magnetodynamic suspension (MDS) are currently available. Such technologies will form the foundation of the proposal. Use of electromagnetic system will be environment friendly and will not need the use of hydraulic fluid. Not all extraterrestrial atmospheres will be earth-like. Some planets will be without atmosphere, while others may be comparable to earth-like. The recommended electro magnetic systems can be used in any situations similar to earth-based scenario’s or where thrusters are required.

3. Construction of basic human habitats on planetary/lunar places without direct human involvement - https://dl.iafastro.directory/event/IAC-2018/paper/48021/
- Space exploration and colonizing is the dream of the human race.To achieve the dream, we will have to build lunar colonies to live on the moon and then be able to use them as a base to explore deeper into space. Building habitats on any lunar surfaces is an issue that needs to be addressed effectively and efficiently.The idea of transporting pre-fabricated dwelling blocks and assembling them on the surface of the moon,is difficult due to associated costs and other challenges.Even if we are able to transport pre-fabricated blocks,we still need to assemble them on the surface of the planet.Such surface-based shelters will expose us to ‘asteroids impacts’,cosmic/solar radiation,intense cold,space vacuum, in addition to other problems.The abstract proposes to overcome the constraints listed above. Instead of transporting building materials to space,a viable option would involve the use of in-situ materials available in/on the moon itself.This is of paramount importance,since it overcomes a key obstacle of transporting materials.Secondly,constructing underground habitats will help us succeed in dealing with the issues related to asteroids impacts, radiation and other problems.The scope of the abstract is limited to building underground chambers/enclosed spaces on the moon. The strategy relies on the use of ‘a swarm of small-to-medium sized robots’ to dig,excavate and build underground chambers.The construction would be completed over a period of time,thereby making them available for space crews to upgrade and use after completion.This approach will rely purely on robots,existing robotic technologies,software systems,artificial intelligence plus other relevant systems to achieve the goal with no human intervention on-site.Human involvement will be from ground control stations based on earth.Existing technologies are available to plan,implement and execute the proposed strategy.Some of the technologies are in a nascent stage but have made significant progress. Research and technology development/integration can be carried out to support the abstract.These will cover areas such as power sources, robotic automation [pre-programmed instructions to perform simple digging/excavation],robotic communication interfaces,on-site maintenance,spare-parts for use in cases of robot breakdown,chamber specifications,lunar geology,communication systems,just to name a few. Such planned underground chambers/habitats can be constructed over time by the robots, with no human involvement and minimal risk.Thus, space crews can travel from earth after the construction of the habitat and build airlock chambers.A chamber with breathable air would be a good start for further activities on the planet/lunar surface.
